\input texinfo.tex
@c %**start of header
@setfilename ccsh.info
@settitle CCSh
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi
@include macros.texi

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Values.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@set TITLE                      CCSh

@c To be used as @value{PACKAGE} whenever we need to include the full
@c name of this package.
@set PACKAGE                    CCSh

@c To be used as @value{PACKAGE} whenever we need to include the
@c nickname of the project: the name that is used to compose the
@c distribution tarball or the web address.
@set PACKAGE_NICKNAME           ccsh

@c To be used as @value{AUTHOR} whenever we need to include the list of
@c authors of this document.
@set AUTHOR                     Marco Maggi

@c To be used as @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL} whenever we need to include the
@c email of the *single* author of this document.
@set AUTHOR_EMAIL               @email{marco.maggi-ipsu@@poste.it}

@c To be used as @value{COPYRIGHT_YEARS} whenever we need to include the
@c list of copyright years.
@set COPYRIGHT_YEARS            2018

@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@set GITHUB_URL                 @url{https://github.com/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}}
@set BITBUCKET_URL              @url{https://bitbucket.org/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}}
@set DOWNLOAD_URL               @url{https://bitbucket.org/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}/downloads}
@set DOCUMENTATION_URL          @url{https://marcomaggi.github.io/docs/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}.html}

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Copyright notice.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@copying
This document describes version @value{VERSION} of @value{PACKAGE}, a @gnu{} Bash script that allows
the use of C language programs as shell scripts.

The package is distributed under the terms of the @gnu{} General Public License (@gpl{}).

The latest release can be downloaded from:

@center @value{DOWNLOAD_URL}

@noindent
development takes place at:

@center @value{GITHUB_URL}

@noindent
and as backup at:

@center @value{BITBUCKET_URL}

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} @value{COPYRIGHT_YEARS} by @value{AUTHOR} @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL}

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the @gnu{}
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with Invariant Sections being ``@gnu{} Free Documentation License'' and ``@gnu{} General
Public License'', no Front--Cover Texts, and no Back--Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is
included in the section entitled ``@gnu{} Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Headers.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@titlepage
@title @value{TITLE}
@subtitle Revision @value{VERSION}
@author @value{AUTHOR} @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@ifinfo
@dircategory Development
@direntry
* ccsh: (ccsh).                 CCSh a C language scripts launcher.
@end direntry
@end ifinfo

@c page
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{TITLE}

@insertcopying

@menu
* overview::                    Overview of the package.
* using::                       Using the script.
* binfmt::                      Binfmt support.

Appendices

* Package License::             GNU General Public License.
* Documentation License::       GNU Free Documentation License.
* references::                  Bibliography and references.

Indexes

* concept index::               An entry for each concept.
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@c page
@node overview
@chapter Overview of the package


This document describes version @value{VERSION} of @value{PACKAGE}, a @gnu{} Bash script that allows
the use of C language programs as shell scripts.  This package targets only @gnu{}+Linux platforms.

The package installs the script @command{ccsh} that compiles and runs C language source files.  By
default it makes use of the @command{gcc} compiler configured to use the C11 standard language;
before installation, we can edit the script itself to change its behaviour.

In addition, the package installs a script @command{rc.ccsh} under a system directory like:

@center @file{/usr/local/etc/rc.d/}

@noindent
which enables @code{binfmt_misc} support for @value{PACKAGE}.

@c page
@node using
@chapter Using the script


Synopsis:

@example
ccsh @var{sourcefile} [script options]
@end example

@noindent
it is suggested to just use the extension @code{.c} for source files.

@c page
@node binfmt
@chapter Binfmt support


@value{PACKAGE} installs a script:

@center @file{$sysconfdir/rc.d/rc.ccsh}

@noindent
that automates the feature control.  It is a shell script (@file{/bin/sh}) to be executed to enable
or disable the feature.  Just running it enables @code{binfmt_misc} support.

We might want to add the invocation of @file{rc.ccsh} in one of the shell scripts that are executed
at system boot time; for example, on a Slackware Linux system we can use @file{/etc/rc.d/rc.local}
by inserting this code:

@example
if [ -x "$sysconfdir/rc.d/rc.ccsh" ]; then
   "$sysconfdir/rc.d/rc.ccsh"
fi
@end example

The script @file{rc.ccsh} implements @code{binfmt_misc} support by adding a record to the register
for source files with name @code{CCSH_SCRIPTS}.  @file{rc.ccsh} does the following:

@enumerate
@item
Verify if the @code{binfmt_misc} kernel module has been loaded by testing the existence of the
@file{register} file; if the module is not there, nothing happens.

@item
Remove the configuration from the registry if it is already there; this is done by testing the
existence of the special file:

@example
/proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc/CCSH_SCRIPTS
@end example

@noindent
echoing @code{-1} in them removes the records.

@item
Echo the records into the registry with the following fields for source scripts:

@table @code
@item CCSH_SCRIPTS
It is the name of the special file representing the record in the registry.

@item M
Activates first bytes recognition.

@item 0
The offset of the magic string into the file.

@item /* ccsh
The magic string itself.

@item $bindir/ccsh
The full pathname to the scripts launcher.
@end table
@end enumerate

The @code{mask} field is set to the empty string, that is: no mask is applied and the @code{magic}
is matched literally.

We have to care about the order of added entries: entries added later are matched first.

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Appendices.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@include gpl-3.0.texi
@include fdl-1.3.texi

@c page
@node references
@appendix Bibliography and references


The documentation of @value{PACKAGE} is available online:

@center @value{DOCUMENTATION_URL}

@noindent
the latest release of this package can be downloaded from:

@center @value{DOWNLOAD_URL}

@noindent
development takes place at:

@center @value{GITHUB_URL}

@noindent
and as backup at:

@center @value{BITBUCKET_URL}

@c page
@node concept index
@appendix An entry for each concept

@printindex cp

@contents
@bye

@c end of file

